2024 MCnet addition (#1507)
HSF/hsf.github.io: _gsocproposals/2024/proposal_MCnetYODA.md

---
title: MCnet/YODA - Improved unit testing and coverage reports from CI
layout: gsoc_proposal
project: MCnet
year: 2024
organization:
  - UCL
difficulty: medium
duration: 175
mentor_avail: June-October
---

# Description

YODA is a lightweight library for efficient multi-dimensional histogramming
and binned data analysis. It provides a lightweight common system for
Monte Carlo event generator validation analyses, particularly as the
core histogramming library used by the [Rivet](https://yoda.hepforge.org)
analysis toolkit.

## Task ideas

This project will improve the robustness of the YODA library and
release system through automated unit-test coverage reports
by the GitLab continuous integration system, and web-based
visualization of what code areas need better monitoring.

## Expected results and milestones

 * Familiarise with the YODA library;
 * Familiarise with the YODA unit test system, including current CI scripts;

>  * Hook up existing Familiarise with `gcov` for producing coverage report;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Hook up existing unit tests with `gcov` for producing coverage report;
```
?

Author: Ouff, thanks for spotting! Copy paste melt down 😭

>  * Familiarise and its visualization tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Familiarise with its visualization tools
```
Do you mean that existing visualization tools in YODA or that the student should pick some visualization library to do the coverage reports?

Author: The latter! Sorry, I should have read this more carefully last night before committing. I removed the rogue bullet points, so hopefully it makes sense now.

Reviewer: Great, now it's very clear, I think.
